it is estimated that 3000 chimps and
four and a half thousand gorillas are
killed every year although there are
still over 100,000 of each species
remaining there is now a clear
possibility of extinction yeah I think
you only have to spend five minutes for
these little guys and look into their
eyes they say the eyes are a window to
the soul and you realized very quickly
that these are indeed our closest living
relatives many people in Cameroon are
not aware of this fact yet and it's very
much our mission to try and convince
them that apes like these chimpanzees
are valuable have more value than than
just meat if people are not prepared to
wake up to this fact then the children
who are in Cameroon today when they're
adults there won't be a sin the forest
for them to see within one generation
they'll be gone forever
Chris Mitchell is financed by crystal
zoom and a number of European charities
there is now an international
groundswell of interest to save the
great apes with the US Congress passing
a grade A Preservation Act and a recent
petition with two million signatures
being delivered to the European
Parliament calling for action the cause
has been taken up by the conservation
world's leading figures eating
chimpanzees and gorillas make no moral
ethical or conservation sense we are
largely they they are largely us I think
isn't Kenyan and hundreds and thousands
of people go to zoos in Europe you watch
them watching chimps in in in an exhibit
there they're clearly struck by how our
very very human what they're looking at
is there are enormous number people in
the countries of Europe
who understand that there's a crisis at
the beginning of the 21st century